---
path: "/getting-started"
date: 2020-11-02T15:26:32.673Z
title: "Creating a personal blog in 2020"
cover: "./cover.jpg"
---

> For a long time, I always want to build a small platform so I can share my own opinions and ideas.


### But why?
Medium, dev.to... could be a better place. I could just write up the content and press the publish button. But what I want is something that I can fully control, to express myself. And sometimes we need some new challenges to force you to grow and to learn something new.


### So, what are the requirements?
- It needs to be fast, both in adding more features, updating the content and speed. As a fulltime developer during the day, I only got a little time to spend during breaks (and I got a bit lazy sometimes).
- Lightweight and beautiful, both of them will keep me inspired and happy to add more content.


### What does it take to make it happened?
- Base structures are generated by gatsby-cli, pages are generated (aka SSR) during the building process so the blog will load as fast as lightning.
- Blog content is stored in Markdown format, listed by gatsby-source-filesystem plugin, transformed to HTML by gatsby-tranformer-remark, pages are created automatically by createPage API, then everything is queried to graphQL and render to the DOM by React.
- To make styling work not became repetive and boring, TailwindCSS is included
- Fast and free deployment provided by Github actions and pages.


### Some extra touch
- Google Analytics.
- Some animated elements.
- Progress bar to help readers know when the content will end.
- Dark theme to avoid eyes strain during the night.

